hey you guys what's up and welcome back
to my channel if you're new here my name
is April Whitley and if you have not yet
seen part one of this series you can go
in here and watch the first video today
I wanted to make up her two and provide
a little bit of an update because I
babes from 2018 and I'm still getting
lots of questions about it we are
talking about how to tone and slim your
thighs especially if your thighs immense
I mean you've had trouble changing I
want to show you guys how I've been able
to change my thighs over time I also
have some updates for you guys in this
older video I was able to go through a
body we comp and significantly change
the appearance of my thighs reduce the
size of them and since then I've got on
to lost an additional lose and a
dispositional inch off of my thighs so I
want to talk to you guys today about how
I thought about doing that what you can
expect in terms of results and really
just want to take you step-by-step what
I've done since that video so that you
guys can do it too so for any of you
guys for a new Here I am a retired
internationally ranked fencer and
fencing is super claw dominant so a
quick summary of what happened to May 18
after I retired from the sport I set out
to do a very intentional body recon
where I wanted to lose muscle in my
thighs and gain muscle and my upper body
just have a more symmetrical physique
this video is not that this is an
extreme video this wasn't body recapping
after eighteen years of doing a sport
that had specific you know results or
specific repercussions for my body this
is going to be like I'm not that
athletic more my fencer anymore this is
like the general population what you can
do to change the appearance of your
thighs if you want to get stronger if
you want to them to look more toned if
you want to reduce them in size just
this will lose a little bit of fat and
just get a little bit healthier this
video is gonna help you do just that I
do want to say that I have an intense
only been trying to lose any additional
mass in my thighs since 2018 it's just
naturally happened I went on another
12-week personal fitness challenge from
December 2019 to around April and I'm
still following that lifestyle so just
things have changed with my body gotten
a lot stronger I've lost a lot of body
fat I've lost a little bit of weight so
things have just naturally changed so I
want you guys to know I am NOT trying to
lose muscle ever anymore I'm just trying
to lose fat I don't care what the scale
says I don't care about weight I'm
focused on losing fat gaining muscle all
the time now it's the most sustainable
thing it's also known as a body
recomposition and you can absolutely do
this as well I also want to say that
it's really great to have big guys I
still have big guys I still love them
some of these is harder than others you
know like everyone has their own thing
with their body but I saw on the
comments of the last video that a lot of
people struggle with accepting their
body type accepting that they might have
bigger thighs and you know what your
body is beautiful and it's okay to want
to get a little bit healthier or lose a
little bit of fat and tone up but if
your body structure is anything like
mine I genetically just I'm quad
dominant when I do glute exercises I
feel in my quads like it's always been
that way and it might be the kids for
you guys to some of you guys watching
this I just want you to know you're
beautiful the way you are it's okay you
can love what you are and who you are
and how you look and also want to strive
to be healthier they don't have to be
like one or the other or all or nothing
you can have a goal and also be happy
where you are I want to state that and
make it really clear that I am really
happy with my body I mean forever
working on am forever working on my
lifestyle and I just love living this
lifestyle and doing this so I don't want
to ramble too much but I want you guys
to know
this is it is okay to have big thighs I
love my big thighs and this is just to
help those of you who have requested
okay can we have an update since then
and what are you doing differently now
okay it will shut up like time to get to
the steps right okay so today we're
talking about how you can lose fat inner
thighs the healthy way so not strictly
dieting okay step one is to understand
what is realistic for you what is a
realistic healthy sustainable attainable
and what you can expect as far as
results so you have to understand you
cannot spot reduce fat loss you cannot
spot reduce muscle loss right so no
matter how many toning exercises you to
know how many no matter how many glute
exercises or whatever that you do you
cannot just lose fat only in your thighs
if you look at my personal 12 week
challenge you guys will see I've lost
fat all over I've lost fat in my arms in
my stomach in my thighs everywhere in my
face when you move fat it is going to
come off equally everywhere and also
genetically don't play a role for most
women it comes off last or slowest from
the tummy area and also the inner thighs
of the thigh area so before you even
start trying to you know only do like
toning by exercise it's just no that's
not doing anything it really comes down
to losing fat all over your body you
cannot spot reduce and in terms of what
you can expect like what is a healthy
goal and what what is a healthy result
to strive for we are looking at anywhere
from 12 weeks to six months so three to
six months of changing our body that
means lifestyle changes that are
sustainable that you can this still
allow you to live a lifestyle you love
that means that means no strict dieting
this isn't crash dieting right like you
want to be able to keep the results
after you achieve them if you do a
strict six week diet lose fat all over
and then go back to your normal life
you're going to gain
back so you want to strive for slow and
steady progress you want to strive for
fat loss not necessarily weight loss and
I'll show you how to measure that by the
way and you want to just give yourself
the time space and grace to really get
these results in the healthy way and
also in this step just understanding and
setting your expectations and your goals
you may you might think that it's a lot
of muscle you need to lose but it's
probably fast probably just if you
reduce your overall body fat percentage
and you increase your muscle mass
percentage you will see the results
you're looking for so you don't
necessarily have to do anything extreme
to lose muscle you don't have to stop
lifting we will go into that you just
probably need to do just slight little
changes here and there for an extended
period of time to get the results you're
looking ok step 2 is nutrition nutrition
is 85 percent of the journey here and we
get to work out later but this is really
right you want to focus we're gonna go
over some some do's and don'ts for for
this exact topic ok do eat regularly
scheduled meals I want you guys to get
in the habit of eating regularly
scheduled meals so that means breakfast
lunch dinner maybe a snack maybe you
need five miles a day whatever it is
don't start skipping meals in an effort
to diet or to lose weight fast it does
not help you in here's why when you skip
a meal your blood sugar level drops
you're gonna get really hungry
especially if you do it all day your
hunger hormones are gonna get angry and
fire up and then you're gonna probably
eat it all back in some form later in
the day at night binging whatever it is
in 1907 time it backfires the other
reason you don't want to do this is it
increases cortisol which is a stress
hormone and it causes your blood sugar
to crash you don't want low blood sugar
you also don't want to higher blood
sugar which brings me to my second point
do eat balanced PSS meals protein fats
and fibrous cards okay what does this
mean every single really eat even your
snacks should have some protein in it
do not eat carbs alone naked carbs are
causing your insulin to increase and
when your insulin increasing your blood
sugar increases
you're probably gonna store a lot of
that as fat and not just you don't want
to have too high of a glycemic load so
too many carbs per meal because you're
gonna end up storing it especially
you're not using it a good time to have
high carb meal is before workout and
after workout but all other times in the
day stick to your fibrous carbs so stick
to those vegetables stick to the carbs
that are going to keep you feeling full
and make sure you're not eating them a
lot because when we eat them alone
we think it's digested really quickly
when you eat the carbs with the protein
and a fat they actually get digested a
lot slowly which results in a slower
insulin response which allows you to
stay in fat-burning mode instead of just
going straight to storage really the
nutrition is that simple if you took the
next few weeks and just focus on one
eating regularly scheduled meals so
literally your meal times just math
about each day and to every single one
of those bills is centered around
protein and it's PFF centric PFF balance
you're already gonna start seeing
results you're going to be less bloated
you're going to have much more
predictable energy levels higher energy
better sleep you're going to be getting
more nutrients especially if you're
getting enough fiber and for women the
recommended daily intake for fiber is 25
to 30 grams you can look you can track
on my pit stop and just see how much
fiber you're getting in a day we usually
aren't getting enough and just a note
there if you do increase your fiber make
sure you're drinking lots of water so
that
you complicated or have too much
diarrhea that either right these seem
really simple but a lot of times with
fitness and nutrition we want to
overcomplicate it but really do the
basics first eat regular schedule in
full meals at 8 p.m. F and watch you
will see that you'll be fuller longer
you'll probably end up eating less in
general because you're eating more foods
that fill you and make you feel satiated
and full what do we eat carbs all day
there we eat that all day it doesn't
keep us full without the other parts you
need the full plate to keep you full
satiated and happy when you graze on
foods all day it just Peaks your insulin
and it keeps you stuck in that craving
cycle so make sure you have designated
mealtimes make sure that they are PFF
balanced that alone is gonna be enough
most likely to set you in the direction
of your goals and you won't have to do
anything extreme you won't have to slash
calories or restrict carbs or go keto or
do intermittent fasting none of that is
really necessary and I don't even use do
any of that I simply focus on getting
high quality nutrient-dense
unprocessed foods at every meal making
sure there's enough protein so about 20
to 30 grams of protein per meal and
making sure I don't skip meals I don't
punish myself I don't you know after a
night out or you know not that we're
going anywhere right now but after like
at night maybe having a couple drinks or
having dessert indulging I do not start
my next day off skipping a meal to make
up for that I get right back on track I
have my you know my carb breakfast my
high carb fats and you know protein 1/2
eggs you know make sure that you are
always keeping this blood sugar a little
stable and that's gonna do an amazing
job at helping you start that body recom
much better than if you just suddenly
slash calories like try to diet that's
not going to help you in the long run
and then let's talk about hunger levels
because I feel like that can be a really
helpful tool for trying to figure out if
you are eating enough or not eating
enough so if you imagine a scale one to
ten one is you are absolutely
stuffed like you're gonna puke you
overeat so much you indulge or you're
just so stuff 10 is like you're
absolutely starving they're about to
like rip your arm off and like either a
locker
god forbid so you want to be in you know
in terms of this goal of losing body fat
getting into a fat-burning state you
want to be a round of five at all times
and then sometimes will be like a six or
a seven and that's okay you're not gonna
be hungry always but you are probably
going to feel a little hungry especially
when it's time for a meal you know going
to bed you might be like slightly hungry
but your speciated you know you're not
thinking about food you don't have a
headache you're not starving on that
just you know you finish a meal and then
you you can probably have more but you
don't need it you're just you're good
you know what I mean and that takes some
time to work on those internal cues slow
down you're eating sit down don't watch
TV like a brain catch up with your
metabolism and you will figure out that
gauge but that's a really good place to
be if you want to be in fat-burning mode
is in that five to six seven range you
should not be in the 8 9 10 range at any
point you should not be ignoring your
hunger hormones feeling like you're
starving or restricting certain foods
you know pudding desserts off of limits
if you want to have dessert
remember dessert is usually high carb
high sugar just put it at the end of a
PFF meal that way it slows down the
absorption of it and you don't have as
high of an insulin
and then faster age just put it the
enema PSS meal and you're good and then
go on with the rest of your day okay
step three is the workouts and fitness
if you do not lift please I want you to
start lifting weights this is going to
help you build muscle which is going to
naturally increase your metabolism it's
gonna help you burn more calories and
dress which increasing your pressing
metabolism is going to help you burn fat
at rest burn calories at rest stops with
goal helps you eat more calories it's a
good thing to do and the only way you
can do it naturally is by increasing
your muscle mass and the only way you
increase muscle is by lifting completes
especially as a petite because we will
slightly naturally slower metabolisms if
you are any lift weights I want you to
continue to look your weights I don't
want you to stop doing leg exercises
okay a lot of times we'll just be like
oh I want to lose fat in my thighs but
you know people will say squats are
making my thighs bigger there's some
truth to that if you're squatting really
really heavy and you are very quad
dominant like I am you know that might
be true however I don't stop training
legs and I haven't like I said you can
see my before and afters I have lost an
inch in my thighs since December and I
am still you know not at this point but
December through March I was lifting you
know heavy with barbells I was doing
squatting maybe like 140 pounds I was
dead lifting you know 200 pounds I was
hip thrusting like 260 pounds I was
still doing heavy lower body exercises
one thing you might want to stay away
from is doing too many squats
I personally you'll have to see how your
body responds to this I didn't stop
squatting all together but I do know
that quad Center exercises like step ups
lunge variations and squats do cause my
legs to blow up so I wouldn't do more
than three sets of maybe eight to twelve
reps of those I would just stick
my three sets and then everything else
hamstrings glutes I go up to five sets
on if you're an expert you know or
intermediate you can go up to heavier
you know heavier and more sets if you're
just getting started
stick to three sets with everything and
you'll be fine so make sure that you're
not skipping leg day but that you're
doing exercises that are emphasizing
your glutes and your hamstrings
development okay so what are these
exercises first off for your hamstring
development I want you guys to still do
your hip thrusts and there's tons of
variations in this right there's single
leg thrusters on the floor hip press
there's feet elevated hip thrusts
there's the elevated single leg there's
frog pumps is another type of thrust for
your field or touching and you can also
do deficit where your back's elevated
and your feet are elevated and you have
more range of motion Oh has to keep
doing all variations of the hip thrusts
that's gonna be amazing for your glute
development and hamstrings and then for
a hamstring focused exercises do your
deadlifts do your single deadlifts do
your hamstring curls you can do these at
home with a towel you can also use water
jugs you can fill up bags with cans of
food get creative my point here is do
not stop doing light exercises so you
still need to develop your glutes and
your hamstrings and even your quads but
of course you can lay off the quads a
little bit maybe train quads once a week
maybe don't do too high volume of
training and see how your body responds
okay step four is how to use cardio
after six weeks and only after six weeks
you gotta weigh a minimum of six to
eight weeks until you assess whether or
not your body is respond to this it's
gonna take some time if you get to six
to eight weeks and you have not noticed
a change it when I say notice I don't
mean just like
that's in the mirror and have a great
trip olya I want you to really take
measurements in terms of thighs you need
to take take measurements in progress
photos that's the best way to measure
progress I forget the scale forget I
don't know anything about clothes just
take progress photos you know every four
weeks or even more regularly and take
measurements with a tape measure or not
the like strips like metal one but the
like cloth one of your upper thigh
whoever the widest or conferences and
make a know of it if you notice the
change after six weeks and you see that
your body fat is decreasing that the
circumference of your upper thigh is
decreasing then that means your body's
responding to these changes and you're
being consistent and not hearing hearing
and it's good in that case you don't
need to do much just keep going your
body's responding it's in the right
direction it's moving it's doing its
thing you can just keep going until you
do hit about a three-week plateau and
then you'll need to reassess so once you
do hit a plateau and you need to be
really honest with yourself guys like if
you have not been adhering and you've
been inconsistent then you can't really
turn to this next step but if you have
been consistent things still aren't
working instead of going into a deficit
through your calories because we tend to
already be eating too little anyways you
can add in a little bit more cardio in
the form of walking you don't need to go
on long runs you don't need to do a hit
workouts or be super high intensive
anything just add more walking to your
routine add a 20-minute session to your
week start slow because it will affect
your appetite and you don't want to be
super hungry in the midst of trying to
go through a body we comp you want to be
fueled enough you want to be gaining
muscle but at in a 20-minute minute
walking session and monitor how it does
over time when it comes to reach your
goals is really about tracking progress
and like being curious it's my body
responding to what I'm doing if it's not
why am I not adhering am I you know am I
not doing enough of X am i doing too
much and my body is stressed and I'm not
sleeping well and recovering well these
are all things that you want to increase
your awareness of take measurements like
if you need to hire a coaches as why
people hire coaches because it can't be
overwhelming then hire a coach if that's
that's what you want to do but just to
be sure that you're keeping it real and
you're not just looking for an excuse to
slash calories like if your brain goes
there it's probably not in a good
mindset and that's okay but give
yourself some time and remind yourself
that you want to do this the healthy way
and not diet and that there is a way to
do it the healthy way it just takes a
little bit more patience time and
curiosity oh my god my feet just fall
asleep okay my step five is a bonus tip
it's an advanced tip it is not a a place
to start it's a cherry on top it is very
effective cherry on top but you have to
have done the previous four steps before
you start doing this because it's just
it can cause a lot of stress if you
haven't gotten some fundamental things
in place first and what it is is carb
cycling I've made a few other videos on
it it can really help your metabolism on
days you workout you're gonna need a
little bit more carbs around your
workouts and on days that you don't
workout you're gonna eat a little bit
less fewer carbs and a little bit higher
fats that is gonna help you so much with
your metabolism it's gonna help you burn
fats and help you stay in fat-burning
mode and I have a whole video on curve
cycling if you want to learn more about
that but that's a really good advanced
technique you can learn more about that
can really help you just spur that fat
loss and again when I'm talking about
losing weight and fat in your thighs and
muscle
your thighs it's gonna come off all over
you can't just do it in that size but
these are the principles the steps that
you will need to take to have it happen
in your thighs as well as all over
overall you guys I want to just say the
thigh gap
I don't swear off this channel but I
feel really strongly that there are
certain beauty standards that just don't
serve us and this is probably one of
them I think if you want to get in
better shape you want to feel healthy
and you just want to feel like more
toned that's amazing I'm all about that
I'm all about that life I'm always
working out and you know striving to be
my best self but if you're getting into
that mindset of like I want to psyche
out I look like her I want to have this
certain standard of beauty just be aware
of it you know it's it's not always
going to serve you to have that
mentality I know I went through a long
journey to loving my thighs and it was
not easy it took so much time I've
talked about this a lot on my Instagram
of my page in general but I'm finally in
a place after you know years where I'm
fine with it and I'm proud of my body
I'm proud of how strong my legs are and
I really want to encourage you guys to
not be doing this for the thigh gap
we'll just do it for your health and do
it because it's fun and it's something
you want to do and if that's not your
goal also that's totally fine if you're
trying to gain muscle on your thighs let
me know below we can totally do a video
on that as well
alright you guys I hope you enjoyed this
update to the losing fat muscle of my
thighs let me know what questions you
have down below and I hope you have a
great rest of your day please give us a
like if you learned something and
subscribe for more content tailored
[Music]